### Introduction

This Bot was made with the purpose of competing in a Hackathon against the bots of other teams in a closed environment (there were also some bots from the event organizers).

The stocks and ETFs were ficticious, meaning there were no fundamentals to trade on, but there were a limited number of participants in the market (about 50 teams) so the market was a bit inefficient. The best 2 ways to make money were to do Arbitrage and to be a Market Maker, so I used a hybrid strategy between both.

It's also important to mention that, since there were no fundamentals, there was no reason to trade directionally and it would increase the risk, I tried to stay market neutral to try not to be dependent on market fluctuations in either direction.

The market I was trading on included 6 Assets, 4 Stocks and 2 ETFs, each of the ETFs represented 2 of the 4 Stocks so the value of ETF 1 should be ETF 1 = Stock A * 0.5 + Stock B * 0.5 and ETF 2 = Stock C * 0.5 + Stock D * 0.5. since both of the ETF/stock relationships are the same and so were the strategies I used on them, I will just refer to bothe the ETFs as ETF and Stock A/C will be stock A just like Stock B/D will be Stock B for simplification purposes.

### Arbitrage Strategy

Since ETF = Stock A * 0.5 + Stock B * 0.5 the price of the ETF should be the average of the prices of the 2 stocks. But the market was illiquid and you couldn't actually redeem Stock A and Stock B from the ETF so the equation didn't always hold up for the prices, it did hold up for the value though, meaning there was a good oportunity for arbitrage.

When the bot find this oportunity, he take it, usually by longing the ETF and shorting the stocks in equal size to stay market neutral or vice versa, this is done with imediate or cancel orders. but there is a caveat, if the position is not market neutral be it because the market making strategy put us on a directional position or because in one of the the previous trades part of the trade didn't go through, the bot needs to hedge himself first. The way he does this in that scenario is by only executing part of the trade. Let's say he decides it's time to long stocks and short the ETF, but he sees that we have some unhedged short on the ETF, he will first of all long the stocks in a certain amount to try to hedge the position.

### Market Making Strategy

the market making strategy is a bit more complex, the market making strategy is relatively independent from the asset it is going to be executing in, I'm going to refer to stocks and the ETF as "asset" and the "market" as the market for that specific asset and it's order book. the first thing I do is check the liquidity of the market to act in, this is only relevant because the general liquidity is so low, if you're acting in a liquid market you can just assume that the asset is always liquid. here there a 4 possibilities, stock is liquid if the order book has both bids and asks and illiquid if it has neither, it can also be half liquid, in this case it either has only asks and no bids or vice versa.

If the Market is liquid the bot looks at the top ask and the top bid and makes a new ask and a new bid that are more competitive by 0.1 (in this exchange the values you traded at were discrete meaning that an increment of less than 0.1 was irrelevant, if you try to implement something like this you might have to adjust this value). This will be limit orders and they will only be done under the condition that even with the increment the ask is still higher than the bid, the point is that due to volatility even if it's really small, chances are both of the orders will be filled since they are so closed together and then the bot gains money from the spread. the bot keeps doing for a while, even if the top orders ar his, because it's possible that the spread is just to big and people don't want to trade, so the bot tightens the spread a bit to entice people to trade and pay him the spread.

Altenatively, the market can also be illiquid, in this case the market could be illiquid for the asks or for the bids or both, I'll talk about what would happen if the bid side was illiquid, in the other cases the same thing would happen but for the other side. In theory, if there were no bids, you could place a bid for 0.1 and hope that someone wouldn't look at the price and would just buy, maybe because they are getting their positions liquidated or maybe because they are just market buying, either way you could get your order filled for an insanely low price and make a lot of money. Unfortunately in this case I couldn't do this, since the exchange didn't allow orders that had a price that was very different from the price of the last trade, so what I did was I looked at the price of the last trade and tried to buy it considerably cheaper than that (-10), but not so cheap that it would trigger tha flags fot the exchange.
